website/docs: sys-mgmt: service accounts (#13722)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/sys-mgmt/service-accounts.md

## Types of Service Accounts

authentik distinguishes between two types of service accounts:

1. **User-created Service Accounts**: Created by administrators for integrating with external systems or for automation purposes.
2. **Internal Service Accounts**: Created and managed automatically by authentik for internal purposes, such as outpost communications. These cannot be created manually.

## Creating a Service Account

To create a service account:

1. In the authentik **Admin interface**, navigate to **Directory** > **Users**.
2. Click the **Create Service Account** button.
3. Configure the following settings:
    - **Username**: The user's primary identifier (150 characters or fewer).
    - **Create Group**: Enabling this toggle will create a group named after the user, with the user as a member.
    - **Expiring**: If selected, the token will expire and be automatically rotated upon expiration.
    - **Expires on**: Sets the expiration date (defaults to 1 year from the creation date).
4. Click **Create Service Account**.

> After creating the service account, you'll see a confirmation screen that shows the username and generated password (token). The password is a long, randomly generated string that will be valid for 360 days by default. Make sure to copy this information somewhere secure as you'll need it for authentication.

Reviewer: Maybe remove the details about the token because those same details are in the next section and more informative

## Authentication with Service Accounts

Service accounts authenticate using [HTTP Basic Authentication](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7617). The username and password (token) generated during account creation are used as credentials.

> ## Managing Service Account Tokens

Reviewer: I would rework this section a little. Rename it to just "Service Account Tokens" because there's a bit of repetition at the moment between lines 36 and 55. Move the Token Properties section to the start because that follows nicely from lines 30-34 and then explain how to manage them.

Reviewer 2: Agree about moving the "token Properties section" up higher. In general, one wants any prereqs or reference info about the thing before the actual procedures on how to CRUD the thing.

Reviewer 2: I think the section on "Limitations" should be moved up as well.

In general, you want a page to have the conceptual (what is this and why do I care) and reference (limitations, required values, etc) sections before the HowTo (procedurals, the steps) section. That way rthe reader is fully informed before they make any wild decisions, lol.

> Tokens for service accounts can be managed through the authentik **Admin interface**:

Reviewer 2: If token can *only* be managed via the Admin interface (not bolded) and no where else, then let's change the word "can" to "are" to be more prescriptive.

> 1. Navigate to **Admin Interface** > **Directory** > **Tokens and App passwords**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log into the Admin interface and navigate to **Directory** > **Tokens and App passwords**.
```

Author: oops

2. Here you can view, create, copy, delete, and manage tokens.

### Creating New Tokens

To create a new token for a service account:

> 1. Click the **Create** button.

Reviewer 2: We need to at least tell them what page to start from, maybe how to get to that page. Something like "On the **Tokens** page (**Customize** -> **Tokens and Apps passwords**), click **Create**.

Also, we don't say "button"... just "Click on... and then the label.

> 1. Click the **Create** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Create**.
```

2. Set the identifier for your token.

> 3. In the user dropdown, select your service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. In the **User** dropdown list, select your service account.
```

> 4. Under **Intent**, choose one of the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. For **Intent**, choose one of the following:
```

    - **API Token**: Used to access the API programmatically (30-minute default lifespan).
    - **App password**: Used for logging in using a flow executor (1-year default lifespan).
5. Click **Create** to generate the new token.

### Managing and Regenerating Tokens

- To copy a token's value, use the copy button under the **Actions** column.
- To delete a token, select it from the list and click the **Delete** button.

> - To regenerate a token, delete the existing token and create a new one with the same settings, ensuring you select the same username under the User dropdown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To regenerate a token, delete the existing token and create a new one with the same settings, ensuring you select the same username under the **User** dropdown list.
```

### Token Properties

- **Expiration**: By default, tokens expire after 360 days but can be configured to be non-expiring.
- **Custom Expiration Date**: You can set a specific expiration date when creating the service account.
- **Revocation**: Tokens can be revoked at any time by deleting them or generating new ones.
- **Automatic Rotation**: When a token expires, it's automatically rotated to maintain security.

## Permissions and Access Control

> Service accounts, like regular user accounts, can:

Reviewer 2: We want to avoid passive tense.

> 1. Be assigned to groups to inherit group permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Assign the service account to groups to inherit group permissions.
```

2. Be given specific permissions directly.

> 3. Be restricted to specific applications or resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Restrict the service account to specific applications or resources.
```

> It's recommended to follow the principle of least privilege and only grant service accounts the permissions they absolutely need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend following the principle of least privilege and only grant service accounts the permissions they absolutely need.
```
